README.md, before:

# file-search-comparison
Haystack search in 1MB file and 54MB file in GO, Rust, C++
We have three different files. In each of these file we have placed a needle that needs to be retrieved at the end of file.
This is the result

![Image representing the boxplot of the 100 tries for each language](results-end-needle.png)

GO seems like the winner but the fact that it takes so little compared to language like C++ and Rust makes me wonder what magic are they actually using.

In order to compile rust code I was using:
´´´
rustc word_search_big.rs
´´´
Utilizing the optimization (step1: remove lowercase, step2: change compiler options) and the code provided by a reddit user [discussion link](https://www.reddit.com/r/golang/comments/1f45h6i/comment/lkjh5gk/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button)
´´´
rustc -C opt-level=3 .\word_search_big.rs
´´´
The performance drastically improves.

Here is the rust after the optimizations just discussed
![Image representing a boxplot after the rust compiler optimization](rust-opt.png)

(another user suggested to use cargo instead of directly rustc, I think this is good practice since cargo offers a rich set of features for project setup, dependency management, building, testing, and deploying Rust applications)

## Considerations

So the point in the end is optimization. Go has already builtin methods to optimize file reading while in rust and c++ it doesnt come out of the box. A further research would be needed for
improving the c++ code that should be more performant than the other two languages

Commit message:

added final images adn fixed some typos

README.md, after:

# file-search-comparison
Haystack search in 1MB file and 54MB file in GO, Rust, C++
We have three different files. In each of these file we have placed a needle that needs to be retrieved at the end of file.
This is the result

![Image representing the boxplot of the 100 tries for each language](results-end-needle.png)

GO seems like the winner but the fact that it takes so little compared to language like C++ and Rust makes me wonder what magic are they actually using.

In order to compile rust code I was using:
```
rustc word_search_big.rs
```
Utilizing the optimization (step1: remove lowercase, step2: change compiler options) and the code provided by a reddit user [discussion link](https://www.reddit.com/r/golang/comments/1f45h6i/comment/lkjh5gk/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button)
```
rustc -C opt-level=3 .\word_search_big.rs
```
The performance drastically improves.

Here is the rust after the optimizations just discussed
![Image representing a boxplot after the rust compiler optimization](rust-opt.png)

(another user suggested to use cargo instead of directly rustc, I think this is good practice since cargo offers a rich set of features for project setup, dependency management, building, testing, and deploying Rust applications)

## Final image
![Image representing a boxplot after the rust compiler optimization with all](final.png)

## Only best two
![Image representing a boxplot of only the best two](final-fastest.png)

## Considerations

So the point in the end is optimization. Go has already builtin methods to optimize file reading while in rust and c++ it doesnt come out of the box. A further research would be needed for
improving the c++ code that should be more performant than the other two languages
